# KIEI-925: Startup Programming and Management**Instructor: Jeffrey Cohen j-cohen@kellogg.northwestern.edu**```* KIEI-924 OR EQUIVALENT EXPERIENCE IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.   * ATTENDANCE AT ALL LECTURES HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.* PLEASE SEE THE FAQ AT THE END OF THIS SYLLABUS.```### Course DescriptionThis course is geared for entrepreneurs and non-programmers who want to build their own web applications and/or manage a software product lifecycle. Students will use HTML, CSS, and the Ruby programming language to build an online product, learning the fundamentals of computer programming and software project management along the way.Perhaps more importantly, students will gain insight into the construction and management of online products and services, enabling them to ideate more constructively, converse more effectively with developers, and manage teams more efficiently.Also covered are agile project management techniques, recommended online management tools, hiring practices, and in-house-vs-offshore decisions.Students will be expected to have a computer running the latest version of Google Chrome, Firefox, or Safari.__Learning Goals__* The Ruby on Rails web framework for building web applications* Communicate more effectively and credibly with developers on your teams* The core principles of agile team management and best practices* Prioritize features more efficiently by developing a better feel for their costs
__Student Expectations__This is an empowering course, but it is not an easy course. Students should expect to spend 8-10 hours a week on project assignments. Students are highly encouraged to work with a partner or study group.Attendance at lectures is paramount. If you miss a lecture, it is your responsibility to meet with classmates. If you miss two lectures, you will probably never catch up.__Computer Requirements__We will be using a cloud-based coding environment at http://c9.io. Students must own or haveaccess to a modern computer that is capable of smoothly running one of the following web browsers: Google Chrome, Firefox, or Safari.__Assignments and Grading__Students must build a project of their choosing throughout the quarter as their final project. Each student must turn in their own project, but students are not expected to toil in isolation.  Helping classmates is encouraged.  * Weekly homework is worth 40% of your grade (4 assignments, 10% each)* Final project Milestone 1 [domain model]        due week 5:  10%* Final project Milestone 2 [users + 1 resource]  due week 8:  20%* Final project Milestone 3 [all resources]      due week 10:  20%* Final project Milestone 4 [polish]             due week 11:  10%### FAQ**Q. Do I need to know any computer programming?**Yes. You are expected to have taken KIEI-924 or have the equivalent experience. You should know how to build a static website and deploy it to a live internet service, such as GitHub Pages. For an example of a website you should know how to build before taking this class, go to https://www.jeffcohenonline.com/prereq.**Q. I know that I will need to miss a class for an interview or wedding. Is that ok?**Don't register for this class. Historically, students who have missed a week had a hard time catching up; students who missed two weeks never caught up.**Q. If I miss a class, will the instructor or the TA teach me what I missed?**No. Classes are an interactive combination of demonstrations and lab exercise and cannot be replicated on an individual basis. If you are ill and have to miss class, please do your best to catch up with classmates. The instructor and TA are always available to help answer questions, but we can't re-enact the entire class over again.